>> Brian Holt: So the last thing that
we're gonna want to test is our thunk.
That's a little bit more complicated cuz
now we're gonna have to start dealing with
asynchronous code, it's not so easy, but
it's not horrible, which is the good news.
So the first thing we're
gonna import up here, and
this is actually one of the reasons
I chose Axios for this course,
is actually has its own mocking
library called maxious.
>> Brian Holt: Let me
push a branch real quick.
So I'm gonna yarn add dot, yeah.
Why am I doing this, git add.
Get checkout -b v3-25,
git comit -m 25,
git push origin v3-25.
Okay, so v3-25 is out there.
I guess I pushed it with moxios in there,
so
you'll have that lint in there,
but that's okay.
So now we're going to go do
some testing with moxios.
So the first one we're going to do is
we're going to pull this ad API data out.
And we're just gonna say
this is strangerThings.
>> Brian Holt: And we're gonna say
const strangerThings equals block, and
then we can reuse in this next test here.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're gonna test getAPIDetails.
>> Brian Holt: getAPIDetails.
>> Brian Holt: And
up here we're gonna import getAPIDetails,
>> Brian Holt: So Moxios has this cool
ability to do moxios.withMock,
>> Brian Holt: And then inside of here,
if I ever call axios,
it's just going to substitute the mock
version instead of actually
trying to make a request, right?
So anything inside of
that body will happen.
The first thing we're going to do is
const dispatchMock= jest.fn,
this is called a spy function.
Ultimately, what we're concerned
about is given inputs, right?
If I request something,
I'm going to expect it to,
for the dispatch to be called
with the correct functionality.
So if I request
Stranger Things I'm going to
expect it to eventually dispatch
an action to update that in Redux, right?
That's what I'm testing here.
So that's why I'm gonna use
this dispatchMock function.
I'm going to pass this in as
the dispatch function and
test later if it was called
with the correct parameters.
That's that's what we're going for here.
>> Brian Holt: That make sense?
>> Brian Holt: So another thing about
this is this test is going to be
asynchronous, right?
It's not going to complete synchronously,
right?
Like this one,
there's no asynchronous component to it,
whereas with Moxios and with API request,
it's asynchronous in nature.
So, we have to be worried about that
we don't want the test to complete
before that we've actually done the,
finish the testing, right?
So what you can do here is
you can say (done: Function),
this is an ability for Jest right.
This done function, this is when you
call it and say, I'm done, right.
So, as soon as you call done your
test case is finished and so,
if everything hasn't wrapped
up it's gonna fail your test.
It also knows that don't finish
the test case until I call this, okay.
So what I'm gonna do here is withMock,
how do I do this outside,
it doesn't really matter, but whatever.
withMock I'm going to call getAPIDetails,
and
I'm going to pass in
strangerThings.imdbID.
Right, what does this return to me?
It's a thunk, right?
So if I call
getAPIDetails(strangerThings imdb),
this is going to return
to me another function.
Typically Redux calls this function for
us,
but we're not involving
Redux in this process.
We're testing just this thunk.
So we actually have to call
the function given back.
So that's why we're gonna put a second set
of parentheses here cuz we're gonna call
the function that's given back.
If this is more clear to you you're
welcome to say like const thunk = that and
then call thunk right after it.
If you want to be more exclusive that way,
that's totally fine as well.
>> Brian Holt: What we're going to do
here, is we're going to call it, and
what is that function called with?
So if we go look at our
action creators.js,
if you look right here,
what is it called with?
It's called with Dispatch,
this is injected by Redux.
Right, so
if we go back to actioncreators.spec.js,
we want to call it with our dispatchMock.
And so now that's going to be
provided to our function and
we're going to wait to see if that's
called with the correct parameters.
That's what we're actually testing here.
>> Brian Holt: So what we're gonna say is
hey moxios, just chill out for a second.
So you're gonna say moxios.wait,
>> Brian Holt: You can give
that a callback function,
and then we're gonna say,
const request =noxios.requests.mostRecent.
So the first thing
we're gonna check to see is that
was it called with the right URL?
Did our thunk reach out to
the correct API, right,
and we can inspect that request here,
given back to us by noxios.
So we're gonna say request.respondwith,
>> Brian Holt: Status 200, and
the response is going
to be strangerThings.
So yeah that's what we're doing here,
in particular,
it is, it's going to make that request and
you'll say hey respond to this request
with a 200 and
then like our next case test, excuse me.
Test case could be text,
what happen is that this is 404 and
this is like error, right?
We can test that as well.
Not gonna test that right now but
that how you do that as well.
This is gonna give you a promise,
so I'm gonna say
.then and in here we can test
what actually gonna happen.
So the first thing we gonna expect
is we gonna to expect ( request.url
),
>> Brian Holt: toEqual(
http://localhost:3000/$ )
Stranger things.indbid right?
So that's the url it
should be calling right?
The next thing is we're going
to say expect dispatchMock,
>> Brian Holt: toBeCalledWith.
This is a function of the spy
function that we're using here.
It's very similar to sign on,
if you've ever used that one, and
we're going to expect it to be
called with add API data, right.
That's ultimately that the action
that we're looking for,
so it's gonna be add API
data with stranger things.
>> Brian Holt: And then down here
we're gonna have to call done, right?.
Otherwise, it doesn't
know that it's finished.
So done().
>> Brian Holt: So a big key here is we're
testing kind of integration between thunk
and then eventually getting to
Dispatch and the addAPIData.
We need to test addAPIData
before we test the thunk, right?
That actually really key here.
Sp that why addAPIData is up here, right?
We need to be sure this ironclad
before we test this one,
because if this fails,
we want this test case to fail first.
We want this one to say,
hey, this is messed up, and
all these tests that are dependent
on this working need to like,
this needs to be tested
first before we get to here.
So the fact that we've tested this first
means that I feel okay down here testing
the integration between the two, okay?
>> Brian Holt: So
that's the two things we're testing here.
We're testing that the correct
API is being called, right?
And then we're testing that the correct
action is being dispatched.
>> Brian Holt: So now if we come here and
say, yarn test, hopefully we should pass.
>> Brian Holt: So the hallmark of any good
test is to go make sure that actually
fails when you anticipate it should fail,
so that's always what I do.
I'm always suspicious of things
that pass the first time.
So let's go into action creators and
make sure that it fails.
So the first thing let's say like, I'm
gonna update the URL to 9 thousand, right?
I should expect that URL to fail.
So now it's saying,
hey I expected this to be 3 thousand and
I got back 9 thousand,
and that's a problem.
So, that test is good.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so that's good.
So that failed the way I wanted it to.
And let's say that this dispatch is,
I don't know, null for now.
>> Brian Holt: Let's go make
sure that that fails as well.
>> Brian Holt: And that fails as
well because it's saying, hey,
I expected to get this back, and
it didn't get that, so that sucks.
So, cool, that fails as well when
we anticipated it should fail.
>> Brian Holt: Gotta make sure
that I de-broked everything and
it all works, okay.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions about this?
>> Brian Holt: To be
totally honest with you,
going back to our spec here,
>> Brian Holt: Like
mocking API responses and testing that.
I mean, obviously more involved than
any of the other tests we wrote, but
I would say this is pretty good for
testing asynchronous code, right?
It's pretty nested, right,
where how many layers deep, but
at the same time,
this reads pretty well to me.
So the fact that we can test
that in one small chunk,
and now we have confidence that
get a APID tells us not going to
regress over time unless we anticipate
changing it in some direction.
So this is a good test case.
I'm pretty happy with this.
Again, this is one of
the big strength about Redux,
as we can isolate this little tiny pieces
and then just really test them super well.
And, then you can kind of have bigger and
bigger test case that cover more and
more of the stack,
to get more of like an integrations
that have just unit style test.
So I'm a fan.